Galois doc (#1299)
oscar-system/Oscar.jl: docs/src/Experimental/galois.md

```@meta
CurrentModule = Oscar
```

```@setup oscar
using Oscar
```

```@contents
Pages = ["galois.md"]
```

# Galois Theory

> Let `K` be a finite (separable) extension of `k`. Then, in contrast to most of 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let `K` be a finite (separable) field extension of `k`. Then, in contrast to most of 
```

the literature we distinguish two concepts

 - the *automorphism group*
 - the *Galois group*
 
The automorphism group deals with the actual automorphism of `K` fixing `k`

> and thus is, in general trivial. Access to via two constructions:

Reviewer: "to via" ?

 - a list of all automorphisms (usually only the identity)
 - the group of automorphisms, returned as an abstact group and
   a map linking group elements to actual automorphisms

On the other hand, the Galois group is isomorphic to the automorphism
group of the normal closure and is explicitly given as a group of
permutations of the roots  of the defining polynomial. Thus even
in the case of `K` over `k` being normal, elements of the
Galois group do not immediately give automorphisms at all.

> Currently, the computation of Galois groups is possible for

Reviewer: Maybe "supported" or "implemented" instead of "possible"?

 
  - `K` a simple extension of the rationals (`AnticNumberField`)

>   - `K` a simple extension of an `AnticNumberField`

Reviewer: Instead of mentioning the type perhaps it would be more helpful to mention the function(s) that produce fields of these types?

Author: the function is in all cases `number_field` - or possibly, also, in the future, `extension_field`, `ResidueField`, `quo(NumberField, ...)` so this is tricky

  - `K` a finite extension of the rational function field over the
     rationals
  - `f` a polynomial over the rationals, an `AnticNumberField` or 

>      the univarite function field over the rationals (here explicit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     the univariate function field over the rationals (here explicit
```

     permutations of the roots in a suitable splitting field are returned).

>      Futhermore, the the case of `f` over the rational function field, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Furthermore, in case of `f` over the rational function field, the
```

recovering the true roots from this information.

The main information is included in the number field chaper, see

  - [`automorphisms(::NumFieldMor)`](@ref)
  - [`automorphism_group(::NumField)`](@ref)
  - [`automorphism_group(::NumField, ::NumField)`](@ref)
  - [`absolute_automorphism_group(::NumField)`](@ref)

## Subfields

The main information is included in the number field chaper, see

  - [`subfields(K::SimpleNumField; degree::Int = -1)`](@ref)
  - [`Hecke.principal_subfields(K::SimpleNumField)`](@ref)
  - [`subfields(FF::Generic.FunctionField{fmpq})`](@ref)

By setting `set_verbose_level(:Subfields, n::Int)` to 1 or 2
information about the progress can be obtained.

## Galois Group

The computation of Galois groups follows Stauduhars algorithm with many
improvements, see ... for an overview.

The entrire computation can also be thought of finding a describtion of the
splitting field of the polynomial. In fact, the information returned
can be used to verify any algebraic identity between the roots, and
find explicit subfields of the splitting field as well.

Information about the progress is available via
 
 - `set_verbose_level(:GaloisGroup, n::Int)`

>  - `set_verbose_level(:GaloisInvariants, n::Int)`

Reviewer: Perhaps this would be better in the docstring for `galois_group`?

Author: it applies to all functions habing a galois in the name - and a few more. I don't know how to deal with this in a systematic, helpful way

galois_group(f::PolyElem{<:FieldElem})
```

The information returned consists always of a group `G` and a `GaloisCtx`: `C`.
Jointly, they can be used to further work with the information:

```@docs
roots(C::Oscar.GaloisGrp.GaloisCtx{Hecke.qAdicRootCtx}, pr::Int)
Oscar.GaloisGrp.upper_bound
Oscar.GaloisGrp.isinteger
Oscar.GaloisGrp.resolvent(C::Oscar.GaloisGrp.GaloisCtx, G::PermGroup, U::PermGroup, extra::Int = 5)
```

To illustrate:
```jldoctest galois1
julia> Qx, x = QQ["x"];
julia> f = (x^2-2)*(x^2-3);
julia> G, C = galois_group(f)
(Group([ (1,2), (3,4) ]), Galois Context for x^4 - 5*x^2 + 6 and prime 11)

julia> r = roots(C, 5)
4-element Vector{qadic}:
 5*11^0 + 2*11^1 + 6*11^2 + 8*11^3 + 11^4 + O(11^5)
 6*11^0 + 8*11^1 + 4*11^2 + 2*11^3 + 9*11^4 + O(11^5)
 (10*11^0 + 4*11^1 + 4*11^2 + 10*11^3 + 8*11^4 + O(11^5))*a + 2*11^0 + 6*11^1 + 4*11^2 + 3*11^3 + 9*11^4 + O(11^5)
 (11^0 + 6*11^1 + 6*11^2 + 2*11^4 + O(11^5))*a + 9*11^0 + 4*11^1 + 6*11^2 + 7*11^3 + 11^4 + O(11^5)

julia> r[1]^2
3*11^0 + O(11^5)

julia> r[3]^2
2*11^0 + O(11^5)
```
To illustrate the use as a splitting field, we will proof that `r[1]^2` is actually
an integer - and that `r[1]+r[3]` is not.

> Any multivariate polynomial in 4 variables (and integer coefficients) defines, via evaluation at the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any multivariate polynomial in four variables and with integer coefficients defines via evaluation at the
```

> roots (the vector of roots) an element in the splitting field. In case the evaluation is 

Reviewer: What does "(the vector of roots)" refer to? Unclear

Independently of the Galois group, subfields, that is intermediate fields
between `K` and `k` can be computed as well.

## Automorphism Group

The automorphisms are computed using various specialised factoring
algorithms: lifting the roots of the defining polynomial in the
given field modulo suitable prime ideal powers and
recovering the true roots from this information.

The main information is included in the number field chaper, see

  - [`automorphisms(::NumFieldMor)`](@ref)
  - [`automorphism_group(::NumField)`](@ref)
  - [`automorphism_group(::NumField, ::NumField)`](@ref)
  - [`absolute_automorphism_group(::NumField)`](@ref)

## Subfields

The main information is included in the number field chaper, see

  - [`subfields(K::SimpleNumField; degree::Int = -1)`](@ref)
  - [`Hecke.principal_subfields(K::SimpleNumField)`](@ref)
  - [`subfields(FF::Generic.FunctionField{fmpq})`](@ref)

By setting `set_verbose_level(:Subfields, n::Int)` to 1 or 2
information about the progress can be obtained.

## Galois Group

The computation of Galois groups follows Stauduhars algorithm with many
improvements, see ... for an overview.

> The entrire computation can also be thought of finding a describtion of the

Reviewer 2: description

Codomain:
=========
Cyclotomic field of order 3)

```

The information returned consists always at least of a group `G` and a `GaloisCtx`: `C`.
Jointly, they can be used to further work with the information:

```@docs
roots(C::Oscar.GaloisGrp.GaloisCtx{Hecke.qAdicRootCtx}, pr::Int)
Oscar.GaloisGrp.upper_bound
Oscar.GaloisGrp.isinteger
Oscar.GaloisGrp.resolvent(C::Oscar.GaloisGrp.GaloisCtx, G::PermGroup, U::PermGroup, extra::Int = 5)
```

To illustrate:
```jldoctest galois1; setup = :(using Oscar, Random ; Random.seed!(1))
julia> Qx, x = QQ["x"];

julia> f = (x^2-2)*(x^2-3);

julia> G, C = galois_group(f)
(Group([ (1,2), (3,4) ]), Galois Context for x^4 - 5*x^2 + 6 and prime 11)

julia> r = roots(C, 5)
4-element Vector{qadic}:
 5*11^0 + 2*11^1 + 6*11^2 + 8*11^3 + 11^4 + O(11^5)
 6*11^0 + 8*11^1 + 4*11^2 + 2*11^3 + 9*11^4 + O(11^5)
 (10*11^0 + 4*11^1 + 4*11^2 + 10*11^3 + 8*11^4 + O(11^5))*a + 2*11^0 + 6*11^1 + 4*11^2 + 3*11^3 + 9*11^4 + O(11^5)
 (11^0 + 6*11^1 + 6*11^2 + 2*11^4 + O(11^5))*a + 9*11^0 + 4*11^1 + 6*11^2 + 7*11^3 + 11^4 + O(11^5)

julia> r[1]^2
3*11^0 + O(11^5)

julia> r[3]^2
2*11^0 + O(11^5)
```

> To illustrate the use as a splitting field, we will proof that `r[1]^2` is actually

Reviewer 2: prove

roots an element in the splitting field. In case the evaluation is 
actually an integer, this can be proven with the tools provided.

```jldoctest galois1
julia> I, s = PolynomialRing(ZZ, 4);

julia> s[1]^2
x1^2

```
Next, we need a bound for the evaluation as a complex number, and compute the precision
neccessary:

```jldoctest galois1
julia> B = Oscar.GaloisGrp.upper_bound(C, s[1]^2)
(x <= 36)

julia> pr = Oscar.GaloisGrp.bound_to_precision(C, B)
7

```
Finally, we evalute the polynomial at the roots and verify that the exact value is `3`:
```jldoctest galois1
julia> evaluate(s[1]^2, roots(C, 7))
3*11^0 + O(11^7)

julia> Oscar.GaloisGrp.isinteger(C, B, ans)
(true, 3)
```
Now, to show that `r[1] + r[3]` is not an integer:
```jldoctest galois1
julia> B = Oscar.GaloisGrp.upper_bound(C, s[1] + s[3])
(x <= 12)

julia> Oscar.GaloisGrp.isinteger(C, B, evaluate(s[1] + s[3], roots(C, 7)))
(false, 0)
```
More interestingly, we can use this to find the minimal polynomial of `r[1] + r[3]`.
Generically, the Galois-conjugates of `r[1]+r[3]` should be the `G`-orbit
of `s[1]+s[3]` evaluated at the roots.

> Once the orbit is known, the coefficients of the minmal polynomial are just the elementary

Reviewer 2: minimal
